Story Recapped here.
Today I'm going to explain a fantasy, horror,
and musical film called “Good Manners."
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
On the way to a job interview, Clara Macedo,
a young woman applying to be a nanny, arrives
at the job site where strict security measures
are done.
The employer, Ana, welcomes her into her home,
making her wait because she is still interviewing
another nanny.
While waiting, Clara observes the beautiful
space overlooking other buildings.
During the interview, Clara says that she
used to be a student nurse but is inexperienced
in being a nanny.
However, she informs Ana that she used to
take care of her grandmother for seven years.
Just as she is about to be denied the job
because of her lack of references, Ana experiences
cramping because of her pregnancy.
To ease her pain, Clara guides and positions
her body so she could feel relieved.
Impressed by this, Ana decides to hire her
as a housekeeper and a future nanny, so she
tours her around the house.
Clara comes home on that rainy night to gather
her things before moving to Ana’s place.
However, she discovers that Doña Amelia,
her landlady, got all her clothes because
she failed to pay her rent for the past months.
She refuses to give Clara her clothes unless
she pays all her debts.
Finally, they both come to an agreement that
settles their deal.
On the first day of her job, she arrives at
the messy house and cleans it right away.
Inside Ana’s bedroom, she sees a revolver
but isn’t bothered by it at all.
The following day, Clara accompanies Ana for
her ultrasound appointment, where she finds
out that she is having a baby boy.
She is concerned about the baby’s normalcy,
but the doctor assures her that the baby is
perfectly healthy and even overweight for
his age.
Back in the house, Clara paints the room blue
and customizes it for the baby’s gender.
While cleaning up, she hears loud music from
the living room as Ana celebrates her 29th
birthday.
Seeing that she is drinking liquor, Clara
attempts to stop her, but she insists that
it is a special occasion and invites Clara
to celebrate.
They both share a toast, and the drunk Ana
shares that she is estranged from her family
after cutting ties with her.
She then shows a picture of her on the farm
and says that she has always been fascinated
with animal eyes.
Initially engaged to a rich man, she had another
affair and conceived a child from another
man.
Her parents sent her away to the city to get
rid of the baby, but they severed ties after
refusing to undergo the process.
Ana becomes extremely comfortable with Clara
and forms an unexpected friendship with her.
On her 28th week of pregnancy, the doctor
informs her that her blood pressure is increasing,
thus prescribing her a new diet.
According to him, it will be difficult at
first, but she will indeed feel better after
a while, emphasizing that she should cut out
her meat intake.
Clara clears the fridge at home and replaces
it with fresh produce to follow the doctor’s
instructions.
She also monitors her boss’s health to ensure
her prime pregnancy.
She kindly gives Ana a book about baby names
to make her decision easier, which Ana is
grateful for.
That night, Clara visits a nearby bar to spend
her free night.
A woman named Gilda joins her table, but she
is not keen on talking to anyone at the moment.
It is clear that Gilda is attracted to Clara,
so she invites her to party with her friends
at another table, but she respectfully declines.
Still determined, she gives Clara her contact
number on a piece of napkin, which makes Clara
blush.
Back home, Clara hears noises from the kitchen
and checks to see if Ana needs anything.
She sees her standing by the fridge, a bit
disoriented as if she is craving for something.
Oddly, Ana starts sniffing Clara from her
shoulder up, and not long after that, they
start to share a steamy kiss.
Out of nowhere, Clara pushes Ana away after
realizing that Ana has scratched and bit her
too hard to draw blood.
The following day, Ana completely forgets
what happened the night before, and tells
Clara that she just had a weird dream, and
even asks Clara what time she got back from
the bar.
Out of nowhere, she utters the name “Joel”
and lets Clara know that she has chosen a
name for her baby boy.
Not long after, Clara informs that Ana suffers
some kind of sleepwalking disorder which puzzles
her, having no idea that she gets up at night
unknowingly.
Clara is in charge of tracking Ana’s pregnancy—she
takes notes of her blood pressure and behavior
throughout the days in a calendar that displays
phases of the moon.
She notices that Ana acts weird or sickly
on the occurrence of a full moon.
Moments later, she hears Ana from the room
having a nightmare, so she comes to her for
comfort.
As Clara holds her, they feel a sense of intimacy
and end up making love to each other.
When both of them are lying down, Ana awakens
out of nowhere, with her eyes entirely in
a different color, and she makes her way outside
the apartment.
Clara curiously follows her around the city,
ending up in a bus station where she sees
Ana eating a cat after murdering it.
The following day, Ana goes about her day
as if nothing happened and dances happily
in the living room, which confuses Clara.
While preparing Ana’s meal, she puts some
of her blood into the food, thinking that
it would relieve her sleepwalking and thirst
for blood.
After Ana delightfully finishes her food,
Clara lets her know about her sleepwalking
and the scratches she put on her.
Ana falls silent and blames everything on
her pregnancy while breaking into tears.
That night, they test their theory and spread
flour on the floor to see if she sleepwalks;
Ana falls asleep soundly, thus confirming
that it only happens during a full moon.
Their relationship is becoming more serious,
and both of them continue to live as a couple.
Because Ana now lacks the money to make ends
meet, she lets Clara remove gemstones from
one of her expensive boots so she could trade
it for some money.
That night, they talk about farm animals and
if Ana has experienced killing one, and she
shares about her last kill.
It was during a holiday; she went out on her
own and ended up in a bar where she met Jorge
Mario, a random guy from the bar and the one
she had an affair with.
They drove to a hill that night and had an
intimate moment.
Not long after, Ana was awoken by a growl
and saw a wolf like-figure just outside the
passenger seat.
She grabs her revolver and tries to shoot
it, but the beast only stares at her before
running off into the woods.
She describes the creature by saying that
it has shiny eyes and a look of anger.
Since then, she never saw Jorge Mario again
despite looking for him in that town.
According to the locals, they know no one
of that name.
On the next schedule of her ultrasound, the
doctor says that the baby has big eyes, big
hands, and a big mouth, but the pregnancy
is normal as far as they are concerned.
The doctor prescribed some medicine for her
and reminded Clara not to feed her any meat.
However, Ana seems disoriented and worried,
even until they get home.
While Clara fixes her hair, Ana tells her
that she has an intense craving for pine nuts
at that hour, saying that she won’t be able
to sleep if she doesn’t eat some.
Hesitant to leave Ana alone in the house,
Clara goes anyway after Ana’s pleas.
Shortly afterward, Ana experiences extreme
cramping causing her to feel more uncomfortable
in her pregnancy.
On the way home, after buying some pine nuts,
Clara notices that the moon is full, expecting
that Ana may sleepwalk again.
As she arrives home, she hears the struggling
Ana let out a faint scream and comes to her
rescue immediately.
It seems like she is about to give birth,
so Clara calms her down while she calls the
doctor, who is currently unresponsive.
Ana’s safety is on the line because the
pregnancy is too much for her, and the pain
becomes unbearable.
Realizing that the doctor won’t be of any
help at this hour, Clara comes back to the
room only to find Ana’s ruptured belly and
her lifeless body.
She bids her final goodbye by giving her a
last kiss.
On the floor, she sees a werewolf pup bloodily
crawling and realizes that Ana gave birth
to a creature far from human.
Despite being confused, she tends to the pup
but decides to run away and abandon it in
the streets.
Clara changes her mind upon hearing the pup’s
cries and decides to take care of it in her
old apartment, naming it Joel.
The pup’s cries are uncontrollable, so Clara
decides to feed it with her blood, despite
the pain that she has to endure.
Years later, Clara raises Joel as her own.
His wolf-like look has subsided, and he seems
completely normal.
The two spend most of their time together
while Clara works as a nurse.
One of her patients, Doña Norma, has a granddaughter
named Amanda, one of Joel’s very few friends.
At school, Joel isn’t doing very well, but
he is always comforted by Mauricio, his best
friend.
To conceal his thirst for blood, Clara raises
him strictly as a vegetarian; Mauricio mocks
him for his diet, but Joel insists that he
likes being healthy.
It happens to be Joel’s birthday, but he
seems down, feeling like everyone has forgotten
about his special day.
But little does he know, their neighbors have
planned a surprise birthday party for him
in Doña Amelia’s apartment, which makes
him ecstatic.
Among the food prepared is a meat stew, but
Clara reminds him that he is allergic.
Clara lets Joel sleep in a smaller secret
chamber known as the “little bedroom,”
where she chains him up on full moons.
As disturbing as it may seem, Joel does it
willingly as Clara is still gentle with him.
Joel asks her if he could go to a school party
with Amanda on Friday, but because the moon
is still full, Clara refuses, putting him
in a miserable mood.
The following day, Joel has developed extreme
hair growth all around his body, and his nails
have grown overnight.
Moreover, he has forgotten everything that
has happened the night before, but Clara comforts
him while being groomed.
After Doña Amelia babysits him while Clara
is at the pharmacy, she notices that the boy
is weak and docile.
Thinking that he may be hungry, Doña Amelia
cooks a piece of meat for him, but he hesitates
at first, saying that he is not allowed to
eat it.
The old lady convinces him by saying that
it tastes good, but Clara should not know
about it, and it should stay a secret between
them.
Joel takes the first bite of meat, and just
like that, he realizes what he has been missing
all these years.
A whiff of energy takes over him, and he starts
to devour the meat with his hands, almost
aggressively.
Clara comes home that night, seeing Joel uncover
Ana’s picture, making Clara mad at him for
going through her things.
Unexpectedly, Joel becomes more hostile toward
her, saying that she isn’t his birth mother.
She tries all her best to calm him down, but
to no avail, so she forces her into the little
bedroom but ends up being wounded by him.
Curious about his actions, she confronts Doña
Amelia if she gave him anything, to which
she admits that she cooked a piece of meat
for him.
Devastated, Clara sinks into the chair, realizing
that Joel might crave meat for the rest of
his life.
Moments later, he hears Mauricio and Amanda
calling for Joel to check if he has gotten
any better.
Clara informs them that he is still sick,
so they hand her a gift to give to him.
In the morning, Joel has transformed again,
and Clara enters the room to give him his
friends’ gifts before letting him know about
his mother.
He also asks about his father, but Clara knows
nothing of him.
In school, he becomes more active and participates
more in class.
He and Mauricio entertain the whole class
by reenacting a combat scene where Joel playfully
defeats him but regrets it right away, making
their classmates applaud.
Afterward, the two boys plan on going out
together unsupervised because Joel wants to
look for his father.
His only clue is a receipt from a mall where
Ana used to buy shoes.
They commute and ride a train around the city
while Clara is clueless about Joel’s whereabouts.
She fetches him at school but finds out that
he isn’t there, and worry soon takes over
her.
She tirelessly goes around town, asking everyone
if they have seen the two boys.
Meanwhile, the mall starts to close, but Joel
and Mauricio manage to hide inside a shop.
As night falls, Joel becomes more silent,
feeling uncomfortable in his own skin, but
Mauricio pays it no mind at first.
They stroll through the mall when Joel eventually
transforms into a werewolf.
His nails and hair start growing, and his
face is replaced by a monster, putting Mauricio
in a state of panic.
The scared boy starts breaking into tears,
not knowing what to do.
In a matter of seconds, Joel reveals himself
completely as a werewolf, and because of his
thirst for blood, he chases Mauricio and implicitly
eats him.
Meanwhile, Clara and Doña Amelia say their
prayers at home, extremely worried about Joel.
They hear a noise outside, so Clara quickly
checks and finds out that Joel has returned
home completely weak and covered in blood.
Suddenly, Doña Amelia sees Joel covered in
hair and blood, advising Clara that they should
call a priest, but she refuses to do any procedure
on him.
While the landlady is making the phone call,
she tranquilizes her, knocking her unconscious.
She plans on running away with Joel the following
day.
Clara confronts Joel about his sudden disappearance,
to which he explains that he was looking for
his father.
He had no idea of how he got back or anything
about Mauricio.
Joel becomes extremely stubborn, refusing
to come with Clara and do anything she says.
The kid walks out and enters the little bedroom
saying that he wants to take down the lights,
so Clara helps him out.
Unknown to her, Joel tricks and locks her
inside.
At school, Joel still has no idea that he
is responsible for his best friend’s death,
even missing him being his seatmate.
During the break, Amanda talks to Joel about
the school dance, and he replies by saying
that he will attend it later that night.
Back in the apartment, Clara tries to open
the metal door with all her will, but it is
useless.
Her worried coworker, Angela, visits her after
numerous missed calls and sees that the gate
is unlocked, so she comes in.
Confused, she enters the dark apartment and
hears thumping noises from the small chamber,
so she unlocks it, allowing Clara to be free.
Hurriedly, she loads the revolver that was
once owned by Ana and makes her way to the
school dance, having a strong instinct that
Joel might be there.
She also stumbles upon Mauricio’s father,
who is frantic that his son has not been home
for two nights, but Ana is too busy at the
moment and runs off.
Just as the dance is about to start, Joel
and Amanda are playfully dancing when he begins
to transform into a werewolf.
Not shortly after, Joel isn’t letting go
of Amanda’s hands, scratching her too hard
and causing her to panic.
Eerily, he starts falling silent while his
body turns into a dangerous and blood-thirsty
creature, but he manages to tell Amanda to
run away.
It is too late for Amanda as she freezes while
looking at the already-werewolf Joel, who
is now setting his eyes on her as prey.
Luckily, Clara arrives and shoots him in the
leg before he could harm the little girl any
further.
The traumatized girl reunites with her classmates
in the middle of the party.
Her bloody appearance makes them speechless,
and she tells them about what she witnessed.
Because of this, the locals hunt Joel and
track down their home.
Meanwhile, Clare takes Joel back to the Little
Bedroom to remove the bullet and heal his
wound.
The beast in the boy has taken the best of
him, but Clara sings a lullaby that manages
to tame Joel down.
Unfortunately, the townsfolk have entered
their apartment and start trashing it out,
believing that Joel is hell-sent.
Finally, Joel and Clara have reconnected despite
his non-human form, so she decides that she
can’t keep him chained and hungry.
While the locals bang loudly on the door,
Clara and Joel emotionally hold hands and
prepare to face all of them together as Joel
lets out one
strong howl.